h1. Data Logic

h2. Problem

Given a small anatomy model that includes inheritance, parthood and ad
hoc relations, the goal is to develop a Prolog system that
incorporates the knowledge of the model. The system should provide
deductive querying facilities and verification of model constraints
expressed in a subset of natural language.

h2. Solution

The anatomy model is formalised correcting some errors. During the
process, different inheritance uses (generalization and
specialization) and parthood relations (part for, has part and part
of) are identified.

Furthermore, a domain specific language for encoding the model is
developed taking advantage of the code-as-data nature of Prolog.

Finally, the natural language subset for expressing model constraints
is turned into a definite clause grammar (DCG). The constraints are
attached meaning by stepwise refinement of the formal definition of
their semantics into executable Prolog code.

h2. Git Repository

* @Knowledge Base/@: this directory contains all the source code of the
  project

h2. Downloads

* "Report":http://cloud.github.com/downloads/arcadio/data-logic/Report.pdf:
  a 30 page long PDF document describing the problem and the solution in
  detail

h2. Requirements

* "SWI-Prolog":http://www.swi-prolog.org/

In order to run the knowledge base you only need a recent version of
"SWI-Prolog":http://www.swi-prolog.org/ installed. Althought the
project was developed using version 5.6, much older versions should
work as well.

Additionally, the code should be easily portable to other Prolog
distributions, as it largely complies with the ISO Prolog standard,
although this fact has not been tested in practice.

h2. License

* Source code (repository): "GNU General Public
  License":http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html

* Documents (downloads): "GNU Free Documentation
  License":http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html